---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E1"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2024-01-29
published: true
labels:
  - WOD
  - BrowserHistory
---

BrowserHistory1 was the most difficult and frustrating of the three WODs we had to complete. I think it was because it was the very first one and was very nerve racking. I get very anxious when I am being recorded, so I knew it would take me several attempts. Also, BrowserHistory1 was essentially the base code for the other two. I complied and tried to do it on my own until I got stuck. Then I watched the screencast solution to see where I went wrong. I pretty much spent all Saturday doing this to get it right. I indicated 10 attempts because that was the number of times it took me to try it. I had to stop and start 15 other times because of technical difficulties, unrelated to the WOD exercise, so I did not count that. I felt I understood the WOD well and was able to go through it in Rx time after the 4th or 5th attempt. I did it in 13 minutes. The technical issues were the most frustrating and took most of the time.  

The WOD for BrowserHistory2 was much easier than the first WOD. I did it in 5.62 minutes. Again, it took longer to record than it should have, and I completed it in 5 attempts. I tried it without watching the screencast first and then after the second time, I watched the screencast and found where I had made the mistakes. This exercise was much easier than BrowserHistory1. 
The BrowserHistory3 WOD was the easiest of them all, I eventually completed it in 8 minutes, under Rx. However, I kept making stupid mistakes, messing up and had to keep trying to find my mistakes. I initially attempted the exercise without watching the screencast first and then watched it to see where my mistakes were. I had to do it many times because I was rushing and making stupid mistakes. Each time I stopped, I realized I was just missing one semi-colon or misspelled a word. I got tired and I spent a lot of unnecessary time on this one. If I took my time, I think I could have completed it in 3 or 4 tries. I am still also very anxious about the recording part. 

Repeating the WOD exercises multiple times allowed me to learn from my mistakes and retain the steps to complete the assignment without stopping to figure out what to do next. My advice is to slow down and relax. You will save yourself a lot of time by having to do the exercise an inordinate amount of times by merely slowing down.
