---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E3"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2024-02-13
published: true
labels:
  - Invoice1
  - BrowserHistory6
  - SmartPhoneProducts1
---

The three WODs covered in this essay are BrowserHistory6, SmartPhoneProducts1 Variables, and Invoice1. I am finding that the WODs are becoming much easier, as I get use to the process in the class. While I still have anxiety about the time count down and the recording, I seem to be getting faster at completing them. However, it is still very frustrating when I make a small mistake and I feel compelled to start over. I will continue to try to slow down to avoid mistakes in the future WODs.
Browser History 6 was easier than the others. I felt that was starting to get the hang of doing the tasks, so it became a little more fun. I became more comfortable with the recording and slowed down. I also thoroughly read the instructions before beginning. This lead to less mistakes and occupied less of my time in having to redo the assignment. I completed it in five attempts, within the prescribed time frame of less than 20 minutes. I started with a countdown timer of 25 minutes and completed the assignment with 5 minutes and 23 seconds to spare. I felt good about doing it in 19 minutes and 37 seconds. I completed the assignment on another recording but took more time. In my final attempt, I could not find where I made a mistake and attempted to use Chat GPT to find my mistake because my eyes were hurting. 

Smart Phone Products 1 Variables was easier. I learned how to do search and replace functions in Visual Studio Code, so I used that to my benefit and completed the assignment in three attempt within the prescribed timeframe of under 11 minutes. I was surprised to have done it in 9 minutes and 44 seconds. I also learned how to do an inspect and check the console before submitting to ensure that I did not have mistakes. That was also very helpful. I also stopped using Chat GPT for help and checking my work because I realize it doesn’t help as well as it might appear. 

The WOD for Invoice 1 was not very difficult. However, it was quite lengthy. I reviewed the tasks before I started and realized it was going to be long. This gave me a little anxiety in not being able to do it within the prescribed timeframe of under 20 minutes. I set the timer for 30 minutes because I didn’t feel like I would be fast enough to hit the Rx goal. However, my time wasn’t terrible. I was able to complete the exercise in 22 minutes and 36 seconds without mistakes. I was also able to use my newly found skills in finding and replacing items in Visual Studio Code and inspecting my work for errors on the console.
