---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E5"
date: 2024-04-29
published: true
labels:
  - E5
  - Assignment2
---

In Assignment 2, we were required to upgrade the website we built in Assignment 1 and personalize it for each user. We were required to create a log in and registration, where users can register their data and it update to the log in database. The user would only be able to proceed to the invoice for check out if they have logged in successfully. 
This assignment was the most challenging for me because I spent a lot of time trying different things. I realized that I need to slow down and take smaller bits and test to see if they work before proceeding to something else. It was quite frustrating because when I felt I was finally on track, I broke my code again and I had to back track to the point where it was working and try something else. This took a lot of my time. However, I learned a lot of new skills in programming that I did not have before. 
I did not work with anyone on this assignment, but I received some help and guidance from Professor Port, which I greatly appreciated. I had my code working but when it broke, I couldn’t get it to connect again because I dug myself into an unnecessary hole.
This assignment was much more technical than Assignment 1. Assignment 1 was more creative, where you were building the design of your website. Assignment 2 required more detail and work on .js to be able to connect the pages seamlessly.   
I spent the majority of my time working on this project, over the assignments and studying for my other classes. This was due to my own stubbornness. I really wanted to get it and obsessed with trying to make it work. Most of the time, I was debugging and fixing errors. What worked well was doing things one by one and seeing if it worked before moving forward. What did not work was ChatGPT. I think using Chat GPT messed me up more than help in this assignment. 
If I could go back in time, I would ask Professor Port for help earlier in the process to save myself many days and countless hours of frustration. I would have probably gotten further in less time. 
